oh this is all
all right eva can you see me
yes all right excellent
i'm looking good all right very very
good we are going to give
one minute just one minute and see if
anybody additional people will trickling
in
if you can see me i'm actually on the
video so i want to say hi
in portland the weather is not very good
it's kind of overcast today
i hope it's sunny and uh fun wherever
you are
okay uh so from mike brown to olympians
hi pan
mike thank you for joining that will be
great so chatting
okay we can see people are coming up
that's excellent
all right and uh all right
dick okay i see a bunch of people lisa
you are joining us as well
hi pam oh well hang on hi pm hi lisa
anyway okay jamie excellent
so eva you see people are joining right
and chatting okay
yes of course hi everyone i'm eva
i will be your moderator today welcome
to the think strategically series with
pam
we'll just wait a couple of minutes for
more people to jump in
i invite you to share your questions
uh in a q a section and
if there's time uh pam will answer those
questions
um after the presentation yeah
that'll be fun i'm gonna share my screen
now and so you can actually
see if that works for you um
i'm gonna put that on the presentation
mode so if i put on the presentation
more i probably will not be able to see
chat if you are saying hi to me
yay hi everybody it's good to see you
all anyway okay
excellent excellent all right
good um i am going to start
giving that i have a lot to cover all
right so
um if you are turning your video on and
you can see me all right i'll make it a
lot of fun
right my presentation it's all about fun
seriously so um like if i indicated
that if you have any questions just
answer the questions and i know that
there is a chat
session and there's a q a section if you
enter on either one of them
uh if i should be able to see it and
then share the questions with me
right and eva keep me on time all right
you know that i talk a lot
sometimes i will go overboard in terms
of timing just
be the time nazi and uh keep me
um yes i always am i know
i know you are very let's roll
okay all right let's get going all right
first of all
welcome i'm giving you guys a big
dr evil welcome and this presentation is
going to be
fun and evil no i'm kidding it's going
to be
fun and educational all right i really
want to find like the austin powers
welcome but i can so that's i settle for
dr evil
i just settle for dr evil with that
being said a very quick intro for myself
and if you don't know me already uh
pamden are here
and what i usually do is i help the
marketers especially the b2b marketers
look at me i'm a b2b
marketers and look at the way i wear my
outfit very boring okay
nothing exciting all right b2b marketer
through and through
all right i help the marketers uh really
um if they are working on this uh if
they work in supporting themselves
i work with them on the content
marketing account based marketing and
sales enablement
and i also work with multiple different
marketers
at the individual level like a mentoring
session
and help them think strategically and i
also provide team trainings
and i wrote two and a half books not
three books two and a half
the first two are really like over 200
pages like 50 000 words
and the third book which is the modern
ai marketer is really about
i would say 30 40 pages less than 10
000 words it's like and it's ebook so
that's why i say two and a half books
all right very quickly
now the economy is opening
do we need to change the marketing plan
again
all right i hate saying this the answer
is
yes and with that being said
i want everyone if you are actually
working on your marketing plan see that
as a job security all right
it's not that hard well actually it's
pretty hard
but there are a couple things that you
can do in fact there are many
approaches that you can do to revise
your marketing plan
okay to align with the economy as it
opens
and mime is just one of the approaches
right i want to share with you it's just
one of the way that to actually help you
and what i want to do today is to help
your
thinking approach because everybody's
marketing playing is different
what i want you to do i want to help you
it's how to help you think
right and with the templates so you can
drive
the discussion internally if you are
like a one person marketing team
well it doesn't matter that's fine too
that will help you think in terms of
what you can do
to modify your marketing plan
there's some prerequisites i want to
share with you okay there's some mindset
change you cannot just think right
about your job anymore if you really
want to work on the marketing plan as
the higher level you need to think
beyond your roles and responsibility
is that critical if you are doing email
marketing i want you to think beyond
email marketing
if you are doing um you know marketing
operation you need to think beyond that
right so you need to have you need to
think a little bit more than just your
job
right so think beyond your roles and
responsibilities
another thing is what i want to do is
help you connect different marketing
dots
right this is another way that when you
think beyond your world's
responsibility you will see a different
dots that you can connect
obviously
that i have done probably
over 50 or 60 marketing plans
in the past 10 years some of them are
actually for my previous job when i work
in the corporate site
and some of them is actually for my
clients right
what i have come to realize before
that when we do the marketing plan even
in the process
of creating marketing plans
there are three questions three tend to
trip
over us if we don't get an agreement
one is what are our marketing objectives
you know it's interesting that while we
are creating the marketing plan
there are people your team members still
asking
hey you know i love your marketing plan
but what are we trying to accomplish
no seriously while creating marketing
plan people still asking that question
and then another one that people ask all
the time is who should we target
it's not necessary they don't know a lot
of time is
they don't agree okay the third is what
can we say
what we can we say to these people that
we target
these are the three questions that
always come up
and trip everybody during the marketing
planning session
if you don't solve those problems in
advance you have a hard time moving
forward
mark my words okay so
what are your marketing objectives who
should you target
and what is your message very critical
from my perspective
you need to solve those questions way
before
way before you do your planning that's
why i call it the prerequisite for
marketing planning
okay okay how do we do that
i have three templates i want to share
with you
the first one it's called a marketing
plan two pager
two right well it can be three
if you write a lot but that just focus
on it's two
from my perspective this two-pager
should be the cover the cover of your
marketing plan
because majority of the marketing plan
tend to be
30 40 i have seen the marketing plan
over
100 slides i'm not kidding right
so before you actually go down to a
detail explain a lot of stuff
right you need to actually have
executive summary
to summarize what your marketing plan is
about okay
and i want to show you the two pager
which should be the cover
of your marketing plan i'm gonna walk
you through this so you understand how
things are tied together and then you
can
use this to align everybody does that
make sense
everything should start with the
business goals period
when i say business goals i'm talking
about revenues what is your revenue goal
and on the b2b side it can be revenue go
it can be mss which is marketing segment
share
you know or it can be your sales revenue
growth
in a lot of companies they are not
necessarily measuring the number
the revenue dollars they focus on the
growth certain percentage growth that's
totally fine
right identify what that is right so
what is your business goal
tend to be revenue mss then i move down
to a business objective
what do you want to accomplish right as
a company there got to be something you
want to do are you going after specific
verticals
are you going to launch certain products
what are certain things that you want to
achieve
these two will tie to your marketing
objectives
then move on to a strategy objective is
what
strategies held right so you need to
actually have these four things aligned
way before you start writing your
marketing plan
okay business goal business objective
marketing objective strategy
you're like pam how do we write that i
will share with you
hold on your thoughts hold on your
thought all right
well i'm not done that's just one page
right remember i say two pager
the next one is you need to have a
buyer's persona
right so you have a marketing objective
you have a marketing strategy who are
you marketing
your products to identify those
targeted countries if you are global
enterprise or if you are growing company
you are growing outside the u.s outside
your home country
what other country that you are
targeting it is okay to say u.s
or your home country right
a lot of time on the b2b side we create
content right
you can identify the languages that you
want to also
translate your content sometimes that's
important sometimes it's not
right and some of the key marketing
tactics that you want to do
a line i'm saying align
with your marketing strategy kpi key
performance
indicators these is what i call two
pagers
you need to actually have these two and
everything is aligned from the
businesses perspective
down to the marketing and also who are
the person that you are targeting
and some of the key tactics that you
will do and also the measurements
this can be done in two slides okay
let me share with you here's what i'm
sharing and
it's like i said it's an example and
this is more content marketing focus
right business goal increased rev uh
revenue increased
revenue to 500 million dollars in 2020
by expanding
okay i'm expanding to manufacturing and
the government segments
so right here it gives marketing a clue
the clue is
our total revenue goal is 500 million
dollars
by the way we are looking to expanding
to manufacturing
and government segments that means
marketing
when you are doing your job you need to
think about there are two additional
verticals we have to consider
does that make sense what is our
business objective
our objectives empower customers this
can be a template
you are helping your customer a certain
way to make decisions
by delivering what by delivering certain
type of solution
whatever software whatever hardware
solution whatever
products we are delivering to them to
help them solve their pain points
right that can be a business objective
with that
how are we going to do that from
marketing's perspective well we are
going to
espec establish us as a trusted thought
leadership
in specific industry the industry can be
a vertical
echo back to your business goals right
what should marketing do in general what
we do is build awareness
and drive demand right for us
this one why don't we align with our
business goal
which is we are driving demands and
qualifying nurturing leads
right in manufacturing and government
segments again
everything is tied up they are connected
right then let's move on because of this
objective what are the couple things we
need to do
to to make sure we accomplish the
objectives
right we want to syndicate the value the
start leadership content
right we want to support the launch
maybe there's a product launch
that's coming right right here i
identify
even the countries that we will do
what very specific in terms of country
that we're going to support
right and from there i move on to okay
if we do focus on the manufacturing and
government who
are the type of people that we will
focus we are growing
what are the top of the countries that
we are going after
some of the key tactics we might have a
country marketing regional marketing on
the ground
but i'm at a headquarter what am i going
to do to actually support them
so some of the key tactic at the
headquarter level or the corporate level
versus the geo level again this i'm
talking
specifically from enterprises
perspective that you are working on
multiple different countries
but you can make that specifically just
for you know one country or your home
country
does that make sense by the way i'm just
giving you everybody a template don't
write anything down
there are place i will share with you
you can download the templates
including the written examples okay
so now in the meantime just focus what i
want you to do is
i want to help you think in terms of
what are the things you can do
to prep yourself before you change your
marketing plan
okay of course kpi
what are some of the key performance
indicators that you would do at a much
higher level right this is
at the team level at the departmental
level right
so that is the things i want to share
with you right so
one these are the marketing plan
two pagers imagine
imagine that you can get everybody
doesn't matter it's two people three
people right
small team big team 25 people doesn't
matter
if you can get everybody agree on the
business goal
objective marketing objective marketing
strategy
buyer's persona target country even kpi
if you can get everybody to agree just
on two page
it will make your marketing plan update
so much easier
okay so this is a prep work
another thing everybody needs to agree
is a buyer's persona
okay this is a typical buyer's persona
but i
like to actually have a persona on one
slide
okay on one slide cio charles i give
this person the name
a picture you know demographic some of
the personality tray
right what does he want and right here
it's not like oh he prefers ski
and he'd like to watch soccer that's not
the point the point is
he stays what are some of his challenges
to run into
he focus inward that means internal
communication is very important
right he uses technology to drive
business efficiency and deliver bottom
line cost savings all right
so with the rise of cloud obviously in
digital and mobile devices
he's obviously pulling his hair out
because everything needs to be
integrated
right so he is creating a flexible i.t
to deliver easy to access data from
everywhere so
these are the information or the clue
that you have
in terms of how you can reach out to
them and what kind of content you should
create
does that make sense right here the
goals the goal is ktbr
keep the business running right so if
that's very
very important imagine that when you are
working on your messaging
that anything that you can say is
related to kpb
ktbr keep the business running right
they want to demonstrate cost savings
can you quantify some of the savings if
they switch
from the exit your their existing
solution to your solution
right so what are some of the challenges
all this should give you
clues in terms of what you can do to
support him
right all right so again
that's this is another thing that
everybody needs to agree it doesn't have
to agree on every single wording here
per se
but you have to agree that hey we are
market to cio
child okay everybody you know when you
talk to your team members
so nobody is going to come to you and
say no we need to
market to you know aaron architect
or we need to market to uh
peter the procurement manager right so
reach an agreement
on the buyer's persona not necessarily
on the detail just yet
but on the specific people that you want
to go after
all right again drive that agreement
right okay again this is a template that
you can use
like i said i share the templates and
also the written examples with
everybody you will be able to download
this
another thing that's very important
right remember i say the pre
three prerequisite first one is
the two-pager your you know what is my
marketing objective
the second one is who is my target
audience right people always ask that
question
seriously i was about to finalize my
marketing plan
i still have the people come to me and
say hey pam
who is the people we target it's
freaking
in the deck they still asking the way
the reason they ask
is not that they don't know it's they
are not necessarily in agreement
okay you have to understand why people
ask specific questions
another question is okay fine
we have to market to cio childs what can
we say
okay this is where messaging framework
comes to play
again templates right here you can
create a
two-page template really is a messaging
framework it's that easy
a lot of people say oh yeah it's very
hard to articulate our messaging
no it's not hard it's a lot of work
but it's not hard you have to spend time
to put it in a way that people can
understand
okay so with that being said you can
start a buy
product of course we are selling
products a lot of people say okay we are
selling solution
that's fine you can put certain product
but again come back to the product and
also what kind of solution they are
solving
you can talk about your value
proposition from solutions perspective
but at the end of the day you're still
selling product
i have clients come to me and say i want
to put the solutions here
well if your salespeople are still
selling the products
if you put solution there it's going to
confuse them
so my take on this my recommendation you
still put products here
but you talk about the solution offering
as a part
of the product feature and also user
benefit does that make sense
so i will not start from here as a
solution
this has to start what are the
fundamental products or services that
you are offering
with your target audience again this
needs to come back
and tie with your buyer's persona the
value proposition should be one
sentence your product brings you know
something
right or solve certain kind of problem
can you write on one statement
it doesn't have to be like cop copy
perfect
because messaging framework is internal
document
to get people understand what our
problem
what our products or services will do in
a plain
english this is not something that needs
to be copywriting worthy
just yet right the copywriter will take
this
and write better words but in the
meantime this just needs to be exp
need to explain what your products do
okay eva am i talking too fast anybody
am i talking too fast
if you are give me some feedback or give
eva some feedback so if i can see
and tell me to slow down or what not eva
good i cannot see i cannot see feedback
okay good good excellent
all right so value proposition the most
important thing right here
in terms of the messaging framework from
my perspective the heart
of the messaging framework is customer
challenges
right here right what do they need and i
always started with i
when you say i as a first person not as
cio
chows as a third person when you say i
or when people are reading this
messaging framework as
i they will read it as themselves
but if you say he you know everybody was
like oh it's he
it's not me right so when you write the
customer challenges write it as a first
person
i need this i'm frustrated with this i
lack something
right so write that in the first person
in terms of customer challenge i need
help
i need go to market support you know
this is when i wrote actually
this for my one of my clients i modified
a little bit
and i also got his their permission to
share
right so now move on with those
challenges what is our positioning for
our product
we actually build this product to
address
this specific challenge can you write in
a one statement
right so you do that at this point i
actually prefer
writing just three challenges it's kind
of like a three different talking point
obviously your product can do you know
100 million things
but you need to prioritize what are some
of the highest
pain points of your customers
and what the features that is willing
it's it's worth
dialing up to solve the problem does
that make sense
so customer challenge you know why can
you say your positioning
and what are the feature this is the
point to substantiate it
what are some of the key feature that
you can use to support that
and then you have to translate that to
end user benefit
what can they actually get out of it
does that make sense that's it
that's your messaging framework can you
imagine can you imagine
that you agree on the two-pager you
agree on the persona
you agree on the messaging framework
then
changing the marketing plan is easy
mark my word again because i've done it
oh my god if i cannot get any of this
right
i cannot get the marketing right my
getting plane right to be honest
this is the messaging framework there's
another thing i added right here
keywords so when i create a messaging
framework
here right and i have come to realize
because a lot of the content creators
or content marketers are using messaging
framework to create their content
when i additional keywords oh they loved
it they were like thank god
i don't have to do additional work i
have a keywords identified for me so i
can write content
yay huge when so you can also add
another column
in terms of keywords all the templates
i'm sharing with you
modify it right make an effort to change
it
maybe you know right here you don't need
positioning
well take that away maybe you know what
you don't need you can add
uh the the the end user benefit and
product features are very similar in
your industry you can combine that into
one
well knock yourself out right same thing
for the two pager
change it add additional element delete
some of it
make that fit for your company
right so that's the pre
requisite i want to talk about right
what are marketing objectives
who should we target what is our message
that's great okay
after you do that things trust me will
flow
naturally of course
kobe showed up joining the party not
good
not a very good party question to be
honest with you
right and this creates a huge problem
for marketers and let me explain to you
why well things happen
very very fast can you imagine
that march 6 to april 6
was only a month ago i feel like that
was like
ages ages ago you know when people tell
me oh remember
back in january you know we did this
together i was like
what january 2020 that sounds like 1975
so far so far
away so with that being said if you can
see
the things that happen so fast it's very
hard for the marketers to react
and this is the daily new cases and i
downloaded from cdc
there's only a march 6 there's only 20
new cases
then literally within seven days seven
days
we increased the new cases by 60x
right and then on march 12th literally
that day
every single sports event cancel nba
mhl mlb and cwa and of course i'm
talking about the us
if you are calling from other countries
i want to apologize
this information is a little bit u.s
centric but it kind of applied
to every single country to some extent
maybe a different timeline
and then on march 15th right this is
like
less than seven days increase
really to 12 37 new cases and then
and oh you know the the shelter in place
across multiple different states
happens on march 19th and march 25th
then within a month from march
6 to april 6 we increase our
new cases from 20 to 43
000 and that's 2171x
in new cases increase in 30 days
that is actually very hard for marketers
to react
okay because everything happens so fast
and marketing
requires time requires time to plan
requires time to create content requires
time to
upload the content require times to even
do media planning
if you're on the creative side you
totally understand what i'm talking
about it also takes time to come up with
the creative ideas and creative concepts
right and all of a sudden boom in 30
days
and literally in on the march 15th
everybody was like what should we do
what should we do what should we do what
should we do
right so with that being said
if you notice i'm just sharing two
examples here
right a lot of people are changing not
just on the messaging
they are changing on their product
offering fundamentally they are looking
into their products
and they are thinking what can i do to
change the product to fit in the current
dire situation right if you ever fly
united
you know that they are incredibly
stingy in terms of like oh you want to
change your plan here's a 200
you have to pay right now they were like
you know why if you book anything
between now and the
the end of march you don't have to
change you have to you don't have to pay
a changing fee
that's a fundamental product change
their offering is changing
what does that makes what does that mean
from on the marketing side
your messaging firmware needs to be
updated does that make sense same thing
for
loom luminous online recording video if
you don't use if you haven't used them
you should
right they are also changing their
product offering they have they are the
sas based platform so it's free but they
are changing their free product offering
from
oh you know what before you can have 25
record a video now it's unlimited and
they also expand it
say now a lot of teachers and students
will need to actually do a recording
they are expanding their loom pro free
to teachers and students
what does that mean to marketing your
vertical has been expanded
a lot to do with the product changes all
the time you have a new persona
you have to go after on top of it your
messaging framework also needs to be
updated
does that make sense so the product
offering are
changing your messaging for framework
real time
but do you think that we move very fast
to updating our messaging framework
not so much not so much okay
all right of course the next things
virtual communications replace basically
all the face-to-face communication
every possible way right now you have
because of the social distancing
well we are sheltering place well why
don't we spend some time with our
neighbors
you know there's a dancing party but six
feet away with your neighborhood
right there is a first zoom wedding ever
right there is a virtual happy hours
i don't know how can tell you how many
virtual happy hours i've joined
including a virtual graduations right
every single communication you can think
of
is now virtual but so our behaviors have
a change
guess what the persona needs to be
updated how
fast do you think we can update persona
in 48 hours i don't think so
right so with that being said
now we have to think about not just
updating the buyer's persona we have to
think
what behavior changes are permanent
what behaviors will revert back when the
economy reopens
right we have to think about it right
in terms of what kind of behavior is
this permanent i'm thinking i'm using
myself as example
i was like okay what kind of behaviors
that will be permanent
well you know i will use zoom
often okay that's a permanent change but
when the mall is open guess what i
revert
my behavior back i go shopping
right so there are some behaviors will
not change that doesn't
that means it may not impact your
messaging framework but when you have
some behavior that will change
permanently especially your target
audience
then you need to think about okay how do
i rewrite the buyer's persona to reflect
that
that makes sense all right
am i like talking too loud all right
a lot of people think my communication
can be aggressive at the time
but i just want to let you know i'm
passionate i'm passionate about this
topic
all right if i'm too loud turn it down
turn it down
all right i understand
okay the buyer's persona updates in the
past
when i was in the corporate they were
like oh we should do a focus group
testing
or we should do some survey you know
what
now things are changing so fast and you
are consumed on the media
and you know your buyer's persona very
well why don't you use that and have a
great discussion among the team members
in terms of hey what can we do to update
our buyer's persona together
collectively collectively as a team
yes eventually you will need data and
survey to back you
up but why don't we start that as a
discussion
updating a buyer persona as a team
right so with all the covet
19 happen it makes me think you know all
the prerequisites
i'm asking all my uh students or
you know a workshop attendees to do is
that still valid
like for example the two pager i'm
sharing with you right i use business
goals and the business objective
use that to drive to ride the marketing
objective
that's what we usually do the product
the business goal or the sales
is driving our marketing objectives
right
that's how we usually write our
marketing plan
but now with things changing so much
it made me think that the business goal
and the business objective are very
critical
but we really need to use persona and
the product
take that into consideration to write
or rewrite our marketing objectives
that is my biggest takeaway from kovic
19.
i feel that when i'm looking ahead in
terms of marketing planning
especially some of the preparation we
need to do to align all the team members
understanding how your targeted audience
have changed
understand how your product offering has
changed actually have dramatic
impact in terms of what your marketing
objective should be
and this is not something i have seen in
a lot of blog posts
that being talked about in terms of how
to use that to actually
uh revise your marketing plan
so for example let me share with you so
this is cio chows
right great
comprehending what technology is going
it's very important i want to leverage
that to drive business growth
look at how i rewrote as a draft
post covet i call it post covet 19
cio chaos right continuously
continual continuous strengthening
virtual communication is a key priority
right here most company employees will
continue to work offsite until december
and from his perspective that might be
the worst case scenario
right so modifying the workflow and
setting it staff to be able to work from
home
to continue to support inter uh
to provide internal support is critical
he also needs to review network capacity
and security requirement when most of a
company is remote
the team will need better provisioning
of remote access
to applications right now they have to
access everything remotely
they cannot be in the office right next
to a server for example
right the current collaboration tools
are working
actually he needs to think about in
terms of collaboration tool requires
certain kind of
capability for all personnel from
c-suite to entry-level workers
there's a certain kind of maybe
communication or the internal
communication that's specifically for
c-suite that require
additional security for example right
and so the way i rewrite this
and it's completely the priorities for
cio childs has
changed dramatically after covet
and at the same time now it's not just
ktbr
it's ktpr with resilience that means
things needs to be fast they need to be
agile
right and here i say demonstrate costa
cost savings and my guess on this cost
saving is not necessarily the major
priority
after it's improved the remote work
across departments workflows we need to
actually have a workflow identified so
they can work seamlessly
so have you noticed in terms of how the
buyer's persona has
changed dramatically and this not just
apply
on the b2c side you probably will see
more on the b2c side
it also apply on the b2b side and i show
you in terms of what
the cio child's priority has changed of
course
if you are talking about it as a team
you will have a draft
ultimately you will need data to back
this up but at least you have something
right if you working together as a team
you
have something that you can align the
whole team you don't have to wait for oh
we have to do a focus group testing
oh we have to do a survey we need to
work with the marketing research team to
do that no
you have some ideas write that down and
make assumption
and then take it from there does that
make sense modify as you go that's what
you have to do
so that's on buyer's persona so with
that being said
the product changes also require the
messaging updates
there's another piece of information
that was kind of important
right this is basically from the
atlantic right
and i want to read through this in the
morning council surveys people in their
40s
were more likely than their older
counterparts to think
advertising should cease entirely during
pandemic
but they also generally responded more
positively
than the older you know demographic
um what do i why do i have this like not
showing basically what they're trying to
say is that the the younger generation
responds more positively
um to the the advertising or the
the marketing that's struck in the more
useful and
empathetic tone and this is another
piece of information that was
interesting all right this surveys
ask participants what they'd prefer to
see in
ads during the pandemic and among the
eight options by far the most popular
choice
was ads that explain again explain
how companies have changed their
services their product offering
explicit information about safety
procedures
was also among the top requests now
it's not just about product right you
have to incorporate into the messaging
framework
you also have to include in terms of
what your companies are doing
to keep your target audience safe
if it's a physical event for example if
you do industry events
what are some of the procedures that you
are doing to keep your even
attendees safe that's actually very very
critical and you need to explain that
and that should be part of the messaging
framework because if it's part of
messaging framework
when people doing the copy writing for
your website for your content
they can dial that up does that make
sense
so that is a knowledge information
that's very critical
so before revising your marketing plan
you need to make sure you update the
buyer's persona
and the messaging framework all right i
don't know if you guys watch saturday
night live i
love john mulaney and the p davidson i
think they are
very very funny if you have not seen the
one hour
um comedy special of drama ladies you
should watch it
i love him so funny all right
i sidetracked apologize
so the prerequisite for marketing plan
before covet is you know people are like
what are my marketing objectives
who should we target what is our message
after the sequence has changed how has
our target audience change
you need to make sure you have a
consensus on that right
why should we revise our message in the
product offering due to the changes
again you have a consensus then the next
one
is what are my uh what are our marketing
objectives
so you have to start with number one and
number two if you cannot get agreement
on that
you have a hard time moving or changing
your marketing plan
okay especially in a company
that consensus is the approach to create
a plan
you need to have those discussion early
then things will flow naturally
well i mean you know how it is involves
human
it does take a little bit of effort but
this
will minimize a lot of confusion
okay so you were like
okay pam that sounds great all right but
we don't have any pro
process to talk about that well you can
start a meeting with
a collaboration right you have zoom or
you have any kind of team
microsoft team start a conversation and
say hey you know what
now the economy is slowly reopening you
know from states to states from country
to country
should we have a conversation about
marketing plan right
maybe you can have a weekly call now i'm
giving you templates
use that template to drive a
conversation right you can discuss the
buyer's persona the messaging framework
using the two pagers to align everybody
right align these requirements before
updating your marketing
plan
so here is my
thought and also my approach to help you
to think
with the templates right to drive that
internal discussion
right so couple things you can download
the templates
from my latest blog for this specific
webinar because i think it's very
critical and i also wrote a blog post i
just published today
so if you go to pamdinit.com forward
slash blog you should be able to see the
latest blog
and you click on that you can download
it and the eva
probably at this time is to sharing the
the link with everybody on the chat room
or the q a so eva are you sharing at
this time
yes absolutely it's already in the chat
section
okay excellent and another thing is i
have a sequel coming up if you really
enjoy
my webinar i'm actually enjoying it
myself
i have a sequel i want to talk about the
seven key elements of a marketing plan
and i know a lot of you say we already
have a marketing plan
and i know you do but
what i want you to do is maybe listen to
my
seven key elements and then you can
compare with yours
maybe you can tell me you know
if yours is better from your perspective
then tell me how i can do better if
there are a couple of the key elements
from my from your perspective can be
added you know from my side of it
can be added to yours well you know what
win for both of us
if you don't have a marketing plan well
come to the sql you're going to have fun
so go to pmdinner.com forward slash
webinars and register
and i'm pretty sure eva is sending the
link as well as setting
uh the link on the on the chat as well
yeah
twice yay thank you eva
you run away if anyone has a question
feel free to ask them you know to send
them in the chat or q a
section just have some time
all right very very good so shameless
plug
allow me for shameless plug um i do
mentor
individuals and also providing team
trainings um so
to help them to revise their marketing
plan faster and quicker
and i'll do work with the marketing team
to set a process
and help them enable their sales team
from my perspective now is actually a
great time
to demonstrate marketing's contribution
to sales
and i know a lot of companies a lot of
marketing departments budget got cut
and i can relate to that to be honest
with you and
in general you know that's usually the
first uh
area that the company decide to cut the
budget is marketing
however if you can show
or quantify or even articulate
that your marketing can support sales
or working with sales directly and sales
really need that information
um or the content or your support
it can be one way to salvage your
marketing budget
so i think from my perspective um moving
marketing down to the funnel
and working with sales closely is
something that
every single marketing team should
consider i mean i'm not saying that you
have to change your marketing
organization 100 supporting sales
top of the funnel is still very very
important building a brand awareness is
still very very important
but there should be a portion of your
work and the budget is actually
supporting an enabling sales team
if you need support on that yay i'm
raising my hand
[Laughter]
anyway i don't know anybody know bill
murray i love him as well
and um i watch the
michael jordan documentaries in espn is
actually five parts
throughout five weeks and this coming
sunday
is the the last two series and
uh one of the the series they were
talking about michael jordan was making
a movie
uh sports jam and uh with bill murray
and i thought of that i was like oh my
god that was a good time
that was a long time ago too so i used
this gif
anyway so perhaps i could be of some
assistance
to you if i do reach out anytime
it's going to be tough actually for next
several
months to be honest i think all the
marketing organizations are trying to
figure out
right and now if we are the economy
slowly come
slowly coming back and the budget may
come back may not
and you are going to work through it
with a new
um or revised marketing plan um it's
going to be hard if your budget is
decreased dramatically if the budget is
on hold and you get your budget back
you still need to think through in terms
of with the updated personas and also
messaging framework
what you need to do to change your
marketing plan
so it's a lot of work i understand i'm
rooting for you
all right thanks a lot and thank you for
joining me you guys
rock so any questions eva
no really you guys are so nice to me
so nice anyway with that being said i
just want to say thank you
and uh now it's about 11 50. i will give
10 minutes back to
everybody and you can always reach out
to me anytime
on any social media channel
nice wedding help all right i actually
do have a youtube channel
alright i'm a youtube celebrity can you
tell yay
i only have a whopping 250 subscribers
oh my god all right go to youtube
subscribe to my channel trust me my
stuff is useful
it's a little boring sometimes i think
i'll make it fun
but it's useful so i appreciate your
help alright
talk to you later see you hopefully in
june
bye bye